<S2B-045> <2010>
<I><#\>Most ah writers you know are very unwilling to come out
from behind their books and to appear as just themselves
<#\>Not out of fear for the most part of facing their problems
or in any way out of modesty least of all out of modesty but
because they feel that they're bound to be disappointing that
they can never be quite what they appear to be or what writes readers would like them to be from the
books <#\>A good many of us write by desk because on the page
we are in complete control <#\>There's a chance there of
getting things right not perfect but somewhere along the way
to that whereas off the page is always a muddle <#\>So the
good news I have for you if you if this 
turns out to be disappointing is that unlike so much else
these days in the case of writers what you see is not what you
get <O>laughter cough</O> <#\>Young people who want to write
are usually told and it's good advice to write out of their
experience that only the world they know in their senses that
they know all the weights and balances of as they affect the
small details of daily living is what they will be able to
make real and vivid in the minds of their readers <#\>As I
said this is good advice <#\>The only difficulty is to know
what you might want to call your ex your 
experience where that begins and ends <#\>Easy enough if we
limit our experience to what actually happened to us to what
we have seen with our own eyes felt with our own hands to
events we have been real witnesses of even if we did not stand
quite at the centre of them but is this really the sum of our
experience <#\>Think of what happens to us when we read a book
or see a film or a play and allow ourselves to be absorbed by
it's world to suffer what the inhabitants of that world suffer
to learn painfully or in a burst of laughter the truths that
they discover about life and our strange part in it <#\>Isn't
that also a kind of experience <#\>Don't the things we
discover there in our senses and on our nerves stick in some
way and change us enlarge what we know of others and about
what a thing it is to be alive <#\>That experience comes to us
in a secondary way by our submitting ourselves to a world that
is not our world and may be very apart from our world but
which becomes ours so long as we are absorbed and entranced
<#\>We lose ourself in it and get back some larger self <#\>We
attain through the imagination to an experience that might
continue to exist only in our heads that is recorded on the
nerves and senses on our emotions with something like the
force of actual experience and sometimes even more strongly
than actual experience <#\>Experience of that kind imagined
and made real is very much what a writer is concerned with as
his daily business and it's that kind of experience that he
wants his reader to have <#\>I'm sometimes asked for example
if some episode in Jono my first book really happened
<#\>Asked I mean because the book looks like a piece of
autobiography and because some of its material but not all
really is drawn through my own background and my own life
<#\>My answer to that question is the one that I think any
writer would give <#\>Yes everything in the book really
happened if not in my actual life at least in the writing
<#\>And the truth is that at this distance I can't always make
the decision the the distinction 
<#\>I mean I can't remember accurately which episodes in the
book draw on memory and which ones I made up because by now
they both have in my mind the same consistency of reality as I
hope they do for the reader <#\>What I ask myself and want to
talk about is where this capacity comes from that allows us to
imagine ourselves into situations and skins that are not our
own but may become our own <#\>A capacity that writer and
reader share and on which the success of all storytelling and
all of its importance to us depends <#\>If you think for a
moment of your childhood you'll admit I think that some of
your strongest memories memories in which as a little person
you seem to stand at the centre of a vivid world of sight and
sound and smell and ones you did not you do
not remember at all but only heard about through that
kind of household stories and reminiscences that is part of
every family's history <#\>What I mean to say is that when we
are young what is told to us what we take into our young and
vivid imagination through the telling becomes an experience as
real to us as if we really could recall in all its the liveliness of our five senses that happening
<#\>And this is true I'd suggest not only of stories of which
we were the subject but of stories we hear out of the lives of
our parents our <w>grandparents'</w> lives or the lives of all
those friends of the family and others who are so fond of
recounting things and with small children hear and overhear
<#\>The process of taking those stories in and making them
real to ourselves so that we can see and hear and smell what
is happening in them of grasping a phrase or a slight detail
and making up a whole perception out of it a whole vivid
experience is one of our earliest ways of learning about the
world we are in and the imaginative process it involves or
anyway this is what I would like to suggest is the same one we
draw on as readers and even more as writers <#\>Writers may be
at least in one sense no more than people who have retained
more strongly than others that capacity of grasping a word or
a detail and making a whole of it of taking what is overheard
or misheard and imaginatively making of it an experience you
stand at the vivid and real centre of <#\>We all know if we
think back a little that childhood experience of listening
eavesdropping overhearing <#\>Here is an account of it I
discovered just the other day in an interview with the poet
Gwen Harwood <#\>I was particularly struck because of the
world she is speaking of is the same Brisbane world that I
grew up in <#\>A decade earlier than I knew it but pretty much
the same <#\><quote>When I was small</quote> she said we lived
in the country in what was then the country in Brisbane and my
friend Alice and I had a special cubby under the tankstand
<#\>It was quite a high tankstand but just right for two
little girls and my grandmother grew violets there in which
lived a beautiful Queensland green frog and they seemed to
like us <#\>We loved them and we use to sit under there
cuddling them in our hands and talking to one another and
listening to the people talking up on the verandah at the back
and they took no notice of us so that we had a continual
stream of remarkable adult conversation <#\>We did not
understand very much of what it was about <#\>In labour for
sixteen hours we imagined was some kind of digging <#\>What
that little memory points to and I'm sure you'll respond to it
is how much of a child's early experience comes out of an oral
world a world of household story telling and talk <#\>And my
guess is this is that this is still so
even in the age of television <#\>Certainly in the time when
Harwood is speaking of and in my childhood a decade later the
world was almost entirely an oral one <#\>I was made aware of
this when I did some of the reviews of a book of mine
Harwood's Half Acre in the United States where reviewer after
reviewer pointed out perhaps because things had moved faster
there that the world the book came out of was a world in which
story telling was still the most important source of
entertainment in households and of course that was true till
very late <#\>My childhood was filled with overheard gossip
which I had to decode and which became a great training in
listening to what was being said beyond the words <#\>Decoded
because as in Jen Gwen Harwood's case some
of the returns terms referred to facts I
couldn't make sense of but also because they were always
trying to fool me <#\>Careful they'd say big ears is listening
<#\>So like most children I had cracked the code long before
they thought I was capable of it <#\>But beyond the gossip
there were also actual stories told to me by by my mother or by our girl Cassie while I was
being bathed or having my hair combed or shelling peas or
watching Cassie make pastry or being taken for a walk or while
we were waiting for a bus or tram and by my father while I was
helping him with the car carpentry or by
workmen who came to the house and would talk to me while I
hung about watching them <#\>So that I heard a great deal
which I diligently imagined and made part of my experience
about my mother's childhood in England and all that life of her of her large family before the great war
my father's hard boyhood growing up as a migrant child in
Brisbane after the turn of the century from Cassie about
growing up on a farm outside Harrisville and from all those
workmen and family friends about <?>white wood ships</?>
<O>inaudible one syllable</O> the carpenter my father used was
an old man called <O>inaudible four syllable</O> ship's
carpenter or in the trenches of the great war and in Paris and
the Middle East <#\>What I mean to say is that the experience
that any one of us can draw on and this is especially true of
writers who as I say may have developed this capacity more
strongly than most and retained it longer to find the
patternings we feel we have been at places we can see in our
mind's eye and know the atmosphere and even the smell of may
go back a good generation before our actual birth and is there
to be drawn on as part of a world we know intimately not just
by hearsay but as we grasped and felt and registered it on our
senses at that moment of oral transmission through those who're
telling it telling us about it directly
out of their felt experience into our open and impressionable
minds <#\>If I am writing about almost any happening of this
century out of the world of my mother or my father's childhood
as well as my own I feel I have access through the senses and
the feelings to the real details of it <#\>It is part of my
experience even though some of it took place before I was born
and the key to all that is some capacity we have to set
ourselves at the centre of what we have known in all our
senses only in the hearing about it in the telling <#\>What I
was thinking of now is what seems to me to be to
be central to the whole business of writing but also
of reading this capacity to step into a world we have not
actually experienced and make it our own as real to us if the
writing and the reading works as anything that has happened to
us. <#\> Imagination as I understand it is not a matter of
dreaming up fantastic happenings or playing games with illusion
and reality <#\>That is more properly called
invention and has to do with the active intelligence</I>
