<S2B-009> <2005>
<S2B-009a> <782>
<I><$A> <#\>Good Morning Russel Wolfe with six E-B-A news
<#\>It's
eight o'clock<,> <#\>Three teenagers who terrorised a man and
his sister at Murdoch on Monday night have struck again<,> 
<#\>The youths all aged around sixteen are being held
responsible for a three day crime spree around the Perth
area<,> <#\>They committed two restaurant robberies on Sunday
night<,> a car theft and robbery in Murdoch on Monday<,> a ram
raid early yesterday<,> and last night robbed a petrol station
on Canning Highway<,> <#\>The youths ex escaped the scene last night in a white Ford
hatchback<,> believed to be that stolen on Monday <#\>Police
warn not to approach the group if seen who are armed with a
rifle<,> a knife<,> an axe and an iron bar<,> <#\>However
police have asked all motorists to be on the look out for a
white Ford Telstar registration number seven M-K<,> two zero
eight<,,> <#\>And five hundred refugees are reported to've
been massacred at a site south of the Rwandan capital of
<?>Kigali</?> <#\>Aid workers in the area have reported the
horrific incident<,> and displaced people have told the U-N
that they were attacked<,> including by men in uniform
<#\>Corpses have also been sighted near a church compound
where displaced persons are no to known to 
gather<,> <#\>The United Nations can't confirm the incident at
this stage<,> but say the report came from a very good
source<,,> <#\>Privatisation has been ruled out for the
state's prison system following an industrial agreement with
the State Prison Officers Union <#\>The state government has
ruled out privatisation and contracting out<,> saying it has
struck an historic deal with prison officers<,> <#\>The deal
which will save the state coffers eight million dollars per
year<,> covers more than twelve hundred officers and will
include sacrificing overtime payments<,> <#\>Attorney-General
Cheryl Edwards says that the new deal will put W-A ten years
ahead of other states<,> still considering privatisation<,> as
a way<,> to save money<,,> <#\>National account figures due
out today are expected to show a steady economic recovery
continuing in the first months of the year. <#\>However
Australia is still facing huge economic problems in the area
of business investment<,> <#\>Disappointing capital
expenditure has prompted market economists<,> to revise the
growth forecast for this year<,,> down to around<,> one point
two percent<,,> <#\>And in parliament one of the key elements
of recovery inflation<,> caused by rising interest rates has
been the focus of debate between Opposition leader Alexander
Downer and Federal Treasurer Ralph Willis <#\>Mr Downer
accused Mr Willis of sharing with the Prime Minister<,> the
belief that interest rates would rise as the economic recovery
continues<,> <#\>Mr Downer believes that this will not
happen<,> and there is no need for further rises in interest
rates<,,> <#\>Well it appears that Health Minister Carmen
Lawrence is not alone in Federal Parliament<,> <#\>A new
survey shows that thirty four percent of her colleagues have
smoked marijuana <#\>The survey carried out by the A-B-C youth
program Attitude<,> was answered by one hundred and five out
of two hundred and twenty-four parliamentarians <#\>They
agreed to answer a series of questions about the use of
illegal drugs <#\>Five members have tried marijuana only since
entering politics<,> out of the thirty four percent who have
tried it <#\>Seven percent said they had tried other illegal
drugs <#\>One had even tried cocaine <#\>The majority of
respondents said that they favoured the decriminalisation of
marijuana<,,> and of course the survey<,> was anonymous
<#\>In sport news and in tennis<,> world number one Pete
Sampras has crashed out of the French Open <#\>He was beaten
three sets to one by fellow American Jim Courier<,> <#\>In the
women's tournament Steffi Graf continues her dominance in the
absence of Monica Seles<,> advancing to the semi-finals in
straight sets<,> <#\>In football news W-A is to meet South
Australia in a clash at football park in South Australia <#\>A
thirty four man squad has been selected<,> including nine
players from Claremont <#\>For W-A coach Gerard Neishem it's
an opportunity to look at potential team mates for the
Fremantle side he'll coach in the A-F-L next year <#\>The
state game will be played on June the twenty-first <#\>And in
weather we can expect showery periods with a chance of brief
hail this afternoon and evening<,> and cold fresh westerly
winds<,> <#\>For local waters between Perth and Mantra<,> a
strong wind warning has been issued with westerly winds from
twenty to thirty knots<,> local squalls to forty-five knots in
showers and thunderstorms <#\>Seas to one point eight metres
on a three metre swell<,> <#\>We're heading for a top today of
seventeen <#\>Right now in Perth it's twelve point eight
degrees and at four past eight<,> you're on world radio six E-
B-A F-M</I>

<S2B-009b> <295>
<I><$A> <#\>More changes are in store for the Perth C-B-D<,>
<#\>The state government are planning the creation of a
heritage precinct<,> around the Perth townhall <#\>The plan
includes buying the old bank west building in Hay street<,> at
a cost to the tax payer of twelve million dollars <#\>The
building will be demolished to make way for the precinct
<#\>Premier Court says the area including the townhall<,>
supreme court<,> old treasury building and St Georges
cathedral<,> will be mostly parkland and become an historical
and tourist attraction<,> <#\>The first juvenile gaoled under
nineteen ninety-two's controversial repeat youth offender
laws<,> is seeking his freedom <#\>The laws introduced a
mandatory eighteen month minimum sentence to juveniles who
committed crimes repeatedly <#\>Even then they could only be
released by order of the supreme court <#\>Justice Neville
Owen is considering the case of the sixteen year old<,> who
had two previous convictions for motor vehicle manslaughter
<#\>The application has been adjourned to a later date<,,>
<#\>New mums are in for a change <#\>In a deal with the A-C-T-
U the Federal government has agreed to paid maternity leave<,>
for all new mums <#\>The maternity allowance agreement is in
exchange for reduced pay claims by unions<,> <#\>The
Australian Family Association says that the allowance should
be the first in a series of changes<,> to help young
families<,,> <#\>Proposed cuts to the agricultural research
has brought about strong protest from C-S-I-R-O staff <#\>They
will be staging a twenty hour work-in<,> <#\>The C-S-I-R-O has
announced plans to scale down and relocate several wool
research centres<,> <#\>In Perth weather we're expecting a few
showers with southwesterly winds <#\>In for a top of fifteen
<#\>Right now it's eight point six <#\>At six minutes past
eight<,> you're up to date on world radio six E-B-A F-M</I>

<S2B-009c> <579>
<I><$A> <#\>Good morning Fenia Paper with six E-B-A news at
eight o'clock <#\>About two thousand construction workers are
expected to rally on the steps of state parliament today
<#\>The workers are protesting that changes introduced by the
Court government have put workers lives at risk <#\>The
Construction Forestry and Mining Energy Union's Bill Ethel<,>
says safety inspectors are failing to police breaches of the
health and safety act<,> and are instead taking up a
consultancy role<,> resulting in unsafe work practices<,>
<#\>As police commissioner Bob Falconer plans to review all
operations in W-A Les Aitken is expected to be announced as his
new deputy <#\>There's been some delay in naming the state's
number two police officer<,> despite both the previous
commissioner Brian Bull and the newly appointed commissioner
Bob Falconer both having recommended Mr Aitken for the job
<#\>Meanwhile Mr Falconer has indicated that major changes
will take place<,> as a one million dollar review process gets
under way<,> with the issue of more police officers<,> at the
top of the list<,,> <#\>Tasmania's anti-gay laws are once
again back in the spotlight <#\>Certain Federal Liberal
members want the coalition to consider dropping its opposition
to the Keating government's planned legislation to override
Tasmania's anti-gay laws<,> but the Victorian government has
threatened to join other Liberal governments in Tasmania and
Western Australia in a high court challenge to the proposed
Commonwealth law <#\>The Prime Minister says<,> Alexander<,>
Downer's credibility will be damaged unless he supports the
rights of people's privacy<,> with regard to their sex
lives<,,> <#\>Western Australia's largest ever conference will
begin today <#\>About ten thousand people are expected to get
involved in workshops and activities<,> for the Year of the
Family Community Conference <#\>Organiser John Cumming says
that now more than ever<,> we need to nurture our families<,>
and the message is loud and clear that there are
responsibilities as being members of families<,> and through
workshops people will be able to learn where they can get help
from if needed<,> and the big goal is to have all Australian
families<,> working more effectively together<,,> <#\>The
steady stream of Cuban refugees continues this morning<,> but
the Clinton administration warns that the dangerous journey
will probably end<,> with their indefinite detention at the
American naval base in Guantana tanamo 
Bay Cuba <#\>The coast guard has reported that U-S ships have
picked up another six hundred and fifty Cuban refugees<,>
bringing the total to more than three thousand who have been
rescued since yesterday <#\>The U-S defence secretary William
Perry says that the refugees have very little chance of ever
making it to the United States<,> <#\>And turning to sport
<#\>Australia continues its winning form in the Commonwealth
Games in Victoria Canada <#\>Cathy Freeman has won gold this
morning in the four hundred metre finals <#\>Her time of fifty
point three eight seconds is a new Commonwealth Games
record<,> and Perth's Renee Powetska came in fifth <#\>And in
more Commonwealth Games news Danielle Accostian has won gold
in the discus final <#\>Her throw was over six metres better
than the silver medallist<,> Beatrice Falmonier of New Zealand
<#\>And in other<,> news England's Linford Christie has won
the one hundred men's<,,> final in a time of nine point nine
one seconds <#\>To Perth weather <#\>We can expect a mostly
cloudy but fine day with a shower or two over night <#\>The
estimated maximum is twenty three <#\>Currently it's seven<,>
and at four minutes past eight you're on world radio six<,> E-
B-A F-M</I> 

<S2B-009d>  <349>
<I><$A> <#\>Currently twenty one in Perth and an overcast
day with an expected top of twenty six <#\>Good morning
<#\>I'm Don Taylor with World Radio news at eight o'clock<,>
<#\>Two men died and another passenger was seriously injured
in an accident on an isolated road near Kojonup<,> two hundred
and fifty six kilometres south of Perth yesterday <#\>The car
ploughed into a tree on Mobrup Road<,> thirty eight kilometres
southwest of the town<,> <#\>The surviving twenty three year
old passenger was found conscious in the back seat and his
identity is not yet known <#\>Those killed in the accident
were Terry Francis McCrystal twenty one<,> and Leon Pea
twenty<,> both of Kojonup<,> <#\>English dramatist John Osborne
has died at the age of sixty five <#\>He suffered heart
failure on Christmas eve<,> <#\>Osborne one of Britain's most
influential playwrights is best known for his play <quote>look
back in anger</quote> which opened in London in nineteen fifty
six <#\>He was famous for the phrase <quote>angry young
men</quote> <,> <#\>A news poll in today's Australian indicates
support for a Republic stands at forty seven percent<,> a 
five percent rise since September<,> <#\>The strongest backing
for a re a Republic is among the thirty
five to forty nine year old age group <#\>The poll indicates
the community remains divided over the issue with twenty six
percent strongly in favour and twenty three percent strongly
against <#\>The Republic is more popular amongst men<,> than
women<,> <#\>And the Trades and Labour Council is urging
unions to use any tactic to get workers pay rises<,> after the
Salaries n Allowances Tribunal gave
politicians a pay rise last Thursday<,> <#\>The Tribunal
granted M Ps a ninety dollar a week pay rise<,> Industrial
Commissioners one hundred and fifty dollars a week and judges
between one hundred and seventy five and two hundred dollars a
week <#\>T L C secretary Rob Beechum said <quote>the decision
was the end of the line for ordinary workers who had got no
where under the enterprise bargaining system</quote> <#\>He
said the system was unjust when it allowed well off workers to
get big increases without improving productivity<,></I>
