<S2A-011> <2007>
<I><#\>Well good morning everybody<,> and welcome again
<#\>It's ni  it is nice   to see so many of
you here <#\>Oh and I see a few ladies now have sat on that
side <#\>That's good <#\>That was worrying me a little
<#\>There wasn't a soul sitting on that side <#\>I wondered if
there was something I should know about over there<,>
<#\>We're going to show you a selection of David Jones own
brand<,> labels<,>  today and<,> I hope you'll enjoy our
presentation<,> so sit back and relax and we'll begin <O>music
break</O> <#\>Now did you know you could buy David Jones own
label merchandise<,> in every David Jones store<,> in every
state<,,> and it does mean that you're buying the best
possible quality at the best possible price <#\>It doesn't
matter whether your looking for classically styled pieces as
we are showing you here in the cropped jacket and the slim
skirt or even for men  for that special man  
in your life you can find<,> beautiful suit like this one
<#\>Now everything is David Jones label here <#\>The crisp
business shirt<,> and the tie<,> <#\>So again it's not going
to cost you a lot of money<,> but you can put your wardrobe
together and know you look<,> and feel<,> like a million
dollars<,> <#\>Blazers are always important no matter what the
season and<,> several different styles to choose from <#\>You
can choose linens or linen blends <#\>You can choose to match
your<,> blazers or your cardigans with pants or a skirt if you
wish <#\>You can do tone on tone or you can match the colours
exactly <#\>And shirts <#\>We have so many great shirts and
knitted tops <#\>You really are going to be pleased<,> with
our label<,> with our merchandise <#\>The buyers have
actually travelled the world and I do mean that<,> looking
for<,> just the right style and the right fabric <#\>They also
do a lot of research into finding exactly what you the
consumer<,> likes to wear<,> or likes our product to consist
of<,> <#\>Now whether that man in your life is tiny<,>
<#\>Well they're both gorgeous aren't they <#\>I never know
which  which   of the men I like the best<,>
but<,> you can find garments in the children's wear the men's
wear <#\>Crisp looking white shirts like this<,> and well cut
shorts<,,> <#\>A beautiful shirt here<,> in cream <#\>This is
a linen<,,> <#\>Good looking white shorts again and a white
singlet top<,> <#\>It looks cool and crisp and clean<,> to do
neutrals with white<,> <#\>Mind you what ever colours you want
whether you're wanting brights or pastels or your neutrals<,>
you'll find them all<,> bearing our label<,> <#\>True linen
and cottons need a little bit of care a little bit of ironing
but then they come looking up so great<,> <#\>Even sleep wear
is available under our own label<,,> <#\>Little gowns like
this one<,> pyjama pants<,> and little white<,> ribbed<,>
tops<,> <#\>Pretty as a picture in pink<,> <#\>Cotton
cardigans<,> cool to wear <#\>Wonderful to pack if you're
going on holidays<,> <#\>These items by David Jones<,> not
only<,> are great for you but they're great to think of for
gifts because Christmas<,> isn't all that far away<,,>
<#\>Mercerised cotton<,> <#\>Now for those long hot summer
nights where you can't seem to find anything cool enough some
of our David Jones own brand sleep wear<,> is going to please
you<,,> <#\>I think even the socks are David Jones label<,,>
<#\>Easy pieces <#\>Easy to wear<,,> <#\>Easy to look at and
easy on the pocket <#\>Now fresh from the shower<,> <#\>Towels
too<,> <#\>Whatever colour to match your bathroom<,> you'll
find those carrying our labels <#\>What you have to look for
is the black and white swing ticket which tells you instantly
that it's a David Jones own label that your looking at <#\>And
thirsty bathrobes <#\>Tiny ones for tiny girls<,,> <#\>This
looks great too now that men's underwear <#\>Just control
yourself girls <#\>I know they're all good looking but<,>
behave <#\>Great looking underwear too<,> <#\>So think about
Christmas because it isn't far away as I said a moment ago<,,>
<#\>Mmm <#\>Maybe you're my favourite <#\>You are quite
gorgeous <O>laughter</O><,> but then the girls are gorgeous
too aren't they<,,> <#\>Whether your looking for candy stripes
or checks in gingham<,> little prices<,> for dear little
briefs that are cotton to wear<,> and so many pretty tops
<#\>I think our little cotton tops begin at about fourteen
ninety-five <#\>The prices vary<,> but many different styles
and wonderful colours<,,> <#\>Sleep wear in cotton<,,>
<#\>Pink and white gingham check<,> <#\>It's a body suit<,>
with little boxer shorts<,,> <#\>Choose from pink or blue<,,>
<#\>They look so pretty and they're so cool<,> and those
little singlet tops<,> <#\>Well they're pretty enough <#\>So
are the shorts<,> to wear for just weekend wear<,> but they're
all carrying David Jones own label<,,> <#\>Now the little
runners the girls are wearing <#\>They're not David Jones
label but I just will mention those because I think they are
twenty-nine ninety-five and they're very comfortable and
they're good too <#\>So we do have David Jones own label shoes
<#\>The label in the footwear department is Milana <#\>There
are quite a lot of different labels under our umbrella <#\>In
men it can be agenda <#\>I think these trousers are agenda
<#\>There's David Jones David Jones Sport and children's
wear<,> with some jeans<,,> <#\>Great looking cotton
sweater<,> <#\>Neutrals looking cool<,,> <#\>Looking good
<#\>I've just changed my mind <#\>Maybe it's Chad I like the
best<,,> <#\>Great sweaters too<,> <#\>There are sweaters<,> 
casual gear<,> sports coats<,,> shorts and trousers<,> all in
the men's wear<,,> <#\>Cotton or a cotton blend <#\>Cotton
and rayon<,,> <#\>You have to use your imagination <#\>Have a
look at the pieces and then<,> choose the pieces that fit into
your lifestyle the pieces that are right for you<,> <#\>Easy
pieces to care for too<,> and wonderful colours <#\>The cotton
knit cardigans fully fashioned sleeve<,> nice and long<,,>
<#\>Wonderful for casual wear to wear over pants and you can
match up your check in your pants with your cardigan <#\>Salad
and green there<,,> <#\>Pretty colours too <#\>The buyers have
chosen a lot of colours that are just that little bit
different<,,> <#\>Your girls here working with your neutrals
and with the salad and green<,,> <#\>You can also match your
t-shirts with your short sleeve cotton cardigans<,> for the
look of a twin set<,> but they are easy pieces to put
together<,> and if you like to wear green<,,> maybe this is
the blazer you'll choose<,,> <#\>With the David Jones own
labels too there's a lot of extra attention to detail
<#\>Little extra trimmings and extra buttons at the edge of
the sleeve and the finish is everything you'd want<,> your
garments to have<,,> <#\>The neutral in the pants looking very
pretty with a soft<,> green and the very pretty little top and
a darker green in the blazer <#\>The blazer nicely cut in
panels too so it's not a big overpowering blazer<,> <#\>Still
in the soft greens and showing you<,> a little layering
here<,> <#\>Cotton for the pants and for the long sleeved
shirt<,> and burnt orange for the little<,> sweater or
cardigan over the shoulders<,,> <#\>Chad's looking great in
green too <#\>There's something really cool about green<,,>
<#\>Did you know also<,> that under the David Jones umbrella
we make cosmetics and skin care items too <#\>Now if you're
not familiar with ah these on everybody's chair there's a
little card that invites you to go to our general cosmetic
counter and you'll receive a tiny sample of one of the David
Jones lipsticks because our products are not tested on animals
in any way and they really are again the best possible
quality<,> for the best possible price<,,> <#\>It's pretty to
layer<,> and it looks good when there are so many colours that
work so well together and with our range of T-shirts you're
going to find that you can do whatever colour wear you like<,>
whether you're into jade greens and softer<,> greens or
whether you're into violets and mauves or<,> lots and lots of
beautiful pinks and oranges too<,,> and with our climate it's
great to perhaps to do some layering because you can begin the
season by<,> tying your little sweater or cardigan around your
hips as the girls are doing here and if in the evening it
becomes cool<,> then you have your sweater to put on<,,>
<#\>But beautiful colours to choose from <#\>Easy care pieces
too<,,> that are great for holidays<,> or for weekend wear<,,>
<#\>David Jones own brand merchandise<,,> <#\>Now when you're
looking for our labels look for the black and white swing
ticket because sometimes<,> the garments are in with other
labels but if you look for that swing ticket you'll be able to
identify them easily and I noticed that the T-shirts are right
the<,> far end of the store here sort of in front of where I'm
standing now and some of the shirts are just behind<,> this
boutique here<,,> <#\>Layering with shades of blue inky blues
<#\>The pants are well cut <#\>They have the<,> unpressed
pleats in the front<,> which is flattering to wear <#\>They're
in cotton<,,> <#\>And these shirts are gorgeous<,>
<#\>Wonderful colours<,> <#\>Colours like orange sherbet<,>
and pink ice cream and then perhaps it's smart to use a<,>
brighter pink underneath<,,> <#\>And dresses and pants and T-
shirts and shirts<,> for little people too<,> to play in<,> to
wear to birthday parties for whatever that busy social life
requires <#\>The labels here in the children's wear are St
James<,,> <#\>Easy to care for to make life easy for us<,,>
<#\>And a good looking check shirt here with white shorts and
a <,> a   green jacket<,,> and layered over
the polo top beneath<,,> <#\>In every label in every
department in every David Jones store<,> you'll find David
Jones label merchandise<,,> <#\>If it's brights you're
looking for<,> then we have those too<,,> <#\>Great looking
pants<,> and do have a look at the selection of T-shirts
because you're going to love them<,,> <#\>Polo tops<,> candy
stripes<,,> plains to match with stripes<,,> <#\>And there's
some dainty little cotton tops too that have a tiny little bit
of embroidery in the front<,> but they're wonderful for gifts
because they are not expensive<,,> <#\>Use your imagination
<#\>Put your pieces together in whatever way pleases you<,>
whatever way will work in best<,> with your wardrobe for
summer<,,> <#\>Daffodil yellow<,,> <#\>Your blazer<,> will be
the best investment if you choose wisely<,> that you can make
for summer and yet they're not expensive <#\>These are fully
lined blazers too <#\>There are blazers some are single
breasted<,> some are double<,> <#\>Choosing<,> a blazer you
know that it's going to team with you jeans and your shorts<,>
your skirt and your pants and in some cases you can actually
match the colour in your blazer to your skirt or your pants
<#\>Choosing white then it goes with everything<,,> and white
with navy<,> always looks tremendous<,,> <#\>A little singlet
top beneath<,> or maybe you prefer a striped top<,,> and a
touch of the blues from Chad<,> <#\>Layering looking good<,>
<#\>The denim look in the shirt because denim is very
important again for summer<,,> <O>laugh</O> <#\>And a shirt
just like dad's<,> and layering too<,,> <#\>And very smart
shorts on both those men<,,> and the fabrics are hard wearing
<#\>You don't have to worry about the washing and the laundry
because they're easy to care for<,,> because with our labels
they are everything<,> you would want our labels to be<,,>
<#\>Fisherman's knit in navy<,,> casually worn with white
pants<,,> <#\>So much to chose from<,,> <#\>This is a great
little white cotton sweater too<,> that you'd throw in the
back of the car <#\>You'd take everywhere<,,> and a
<O>inaudible</O> pinies<,,> <#\>The buyer knows too that it
gets very hot here<,> <#\>Sydney is a place where we need lots
of cool cotton tops and tops that are easy to pop on<,> and
that's what you'll find<,,> <#\>And white with navy is always
a winner<,,> <#\>For big girls<,> and for little girls too<,>
if you want to dress up a little look for David Jones
label<,,></I>
