<S2A-065> <2021>
<I><$A> <#\>Now at this stage of the trial <O>cough</O> I am
er required to direct you as to the relevant principles of law
and to er summari summarise the case for
the Crown and for the<,> <O>cough</O> accused and ah I also
endeavour to summarise the arguments which have been advanced
by both counsel <O>cough</O> during their final addresses<,>
<#\>Ah counsel have referred to certain principles of law
during the course of their addresses but the law requires me
to cover the field whether counsel have done it or not
<O>cough</O> and as a result <O>cough</O> to that extent there
will be a certain amount of duplication<,,> <#\>Now you will
have noticed that ah during the course of this trial<,> ah
different parties have different roles to play <#\>Each
counsel represents a particular party either the Crown or the
accused <#\>I preside<,> <O>cough</O> and when required give
rulings on questions of evidence <O>cough</O> and it is my
task to see that the trial proceeds according to law<,>
<O>cough</O> <#\>It is your function to decide this case and
it is not my function nor that of counsel to decide the case
<#\>My function as I mentioned is to direct you as to the
principles of law which are relevant <O>cough</O> to make such
comment on the evidence as I consider appropriate and
generally to sum up the cases to you <#\>Whatever I say on the
law you must accept but you are the judges of the facts and
you may disregard any comments which I may make on the facts
<#\>In a similar manner you may disregard any anything which counsel have said <#\>On the other
hand if counsel or myself say anything on the facts which you
consider helpful then act upon them but if you consider such
comments unhelpful then disregard them <#\>It is essential for
you to realise at the outset that you constitute the tribunal
appointed to decide the facts of this case<,> and it is not my
function to interfere in anyway with your responsibility <#\>In
deciding this case you must decide on the evidence which
you've heard in this court and that is extremely important
<O>cough</O> in all er trials and more so in this particular
trial than others for reasons which I shall state to you
later<,> and it follows that you are not permitted to
speculate <#\>You are ex<,> expected to
perform your duty in an impartial and responsible manner
uninfluenced by prejudice and unmoved by sympathy <#\>Your
task is an intellectual one as the lawyers term it and
you must and your decision must depend upon the
evidence<,> <#\>Now in performing your task you will be
required to evaluate the evidence of each witness<,> <#\>It is
for you to say how much or how little of the evidence of each
witness that you accept <#\>You may accept some of the
evidence and reject the balance <#\>You may accept all or
reject all<,> and you may give different weight or importance
to some of the evidence in relation to other evidence given by
the witness who'll compare with other witnesses <#\>It is for
you to say whether a particular witness is truthful or
accurate and the degree of truth or accuracy that you consider
is appropriate in deciding this issue <#\>You can if you think
fit take into consideration such matters as the recollection
of a witness the lapse of time since the event happened the
ability of the witness to recall and to retell the events the
opportunity which the witness had to observe or hear what
occurred and whether the witness is independent and any other
relevant factors which may appeal to you <#\>It is for you to
decide what conclusions should be drawn from the facts which
you accept <#\>You may draw inferences or conclusions from
facts which you accept <#\>For example one's intention can be
inferred from facts but you will not do so against the
accused<,> unless you are satisfied beyond reasonable doubt<,>
that such inferences or conclusions ought to be drawn <#\>It
follows<,> that if there's more than one inference to be drawn
one consistent with innocence and one consistent with guilt
then you should draw an inference consistent with innocence<,>
<#\>Now the drawing of inferences<,> is something which ah
most of us do most days of our lives often without giving it a
moment's thought and if I can give you an illustration which
is well used in these courts <#\>If you met a friend in Bourke
Street Melbourne at say nine a m on one particular morning and
then at twelve o'clock the same day at midday you saw that
person again<,> in Martin Place Sydney you could safely draw
the inference that he flew to Sydney er and that he did not
travel by car<,> or by train<,> but you could not draw any
inference on those facts as to whether he flew any particular
airline<,,> <#\>Ah what I have just said is relevant in
determining the credibility of the witnesses <#\>Now in this
case there is a<,> real conflict of evidence<,> as to what
occurred at the relevant times<,> <#\>And you have heard
before you in varying degrees two opposing accounts of what
occurred <#\>It is your task to scrutinise the evidence which
you have heard before you in this court and to assess and
evaluate the evidence of each witness <#\>After scrutinising
the evidence and assessing and evaluating the evidence of each
witness you ask yourselves has the crown satisfied you beyond
reasonable doubt<,> that the accused, man is guilty<,> of the
particular count under consideration<,,> <#\>Further when I
talk about the facts or the evidence it will necessarily be
incomplete<,> <#\>I do not intend to cover all the evidence
and this means that I must make a selection<,> <#\>I will
refer to some of the evidence but will not refer to other
parts of the evidence <#\>Ah merely because I refer to some of
the evidence and not to other parts of the evidence is not to
say or to imply that the parts which I mention are more
important than the parts which I omit <#\>Ah what is important
is what you consider to be important<,> <#\>The evidence has
been recorded on<,> er tape so if you wish to refresh your
memories with any parts of the evidence then appropriate
arrangements can be played er for the tape<,> er to be
replayed<,,> <#\>However that's the principle to which I
refer is that in this court there are no majority verdicts
<#\>This is a criminal court<,> <#\>Each and everyone of you
must agree upon the verdict that you bring in whether it be a
verdict of guilty or of not guilty<,> <#\>Different minds
approach problems in different ways <#\>Each person has his
own attitude to matters of fact and to matters of inferences inference from facts <#\>What is
necessary though you need not follow the same line of
reasoning is that ultimately the verdict that you come to is a
unanimous verdict<,> <#\>That means that although you can
reach a verdict in respect of each particular account by
accepting or rejecting different parts of the evidence from
those accepted or rejected by your fellow jurors or by
employing different processes<,> of logic or reasoning at the
end you must all be agreed that the verdict whether of guilty
or not guilty is the proper verdict and a unanimous verdict<,>
<#\>A verdict of not guilty means<,> either that you believe
the accused is innocent or that you are not satisfied beyond
reasonable doubt that he is guilty<,,> <#\>The case which you
are hearing is a criminal case in which the Crown has laid
three charges against the accused <#\>Ah when the Crown
accuses a citizen of committing a criminal offence<,> the
Crown must prove the guilt of the accused<,> <#\>It is not for
the accused to prove his innocence <#\>The Crown must prove
the guilt of the accused upon all the evidence and the Crown
must prove every element of the crime<,> <#\>The onus of proof
is borne by the Crown and the accused need not persuade you of
anything<,> and he is presumed to be innocent<,> and he enjoys
that presumption until a jury decides otherwise<,> <#\>The
standard of proof to which the Crown must attain before you
are entitled to return a verdict of guilty is what has been
mentioned by both counsel <#\>The standard of proof is that
you must all be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt of the guilt
of the accused before you can return a verdict of guilty
<#\>These words mean what they say and no assistance can be
gained by expressing them differently <#\>You apply your
commonsense to the facts as you find them and ask yourselves
whether the Crown has convinced you beyond reasonable
doubt<,> of the proof or existence of every element of the
crime under consideration<,> <#\>Now by way of contrast only
in case any of you have been members of a civil jury<,> in a
civil case a jury may fi lawfully find a
verdict in favour of one of the parties for example<,> the
plaintiff on the balance of probabilities <#\>In other words
if a jury although it may be doubtful about the matter thinks
that the plaintiff's side of the case is more likely to be
correct than not they may find for the plaintiff although the
probabilities weigh down ever so slightly in favour of the
plaintiff <#\>Now that approach or test is not permitted in
this court<,> <#\>Er it is not a matter of saying that the
accused is more probably guilty than not <#\>If that was your
finding then it would be your duty to find the accused not
guilty<,> <#\>The Crown must go beyond showing that he is more
probably guilty than not <#\>They must convince you beyond
reasonable doubt that he is guilty<,> <#\>It is a high
standard of proof which is imposed on the Crown<,> and I hereafter if I say to you that the Crown must
prove something to you or to your satisfaction or I or I use other similar phrases<,> I mean it must
prove those matters to you beyond reasonable doubt<,,>
<#\>Now in this trial the accused is charged with three
counts<,> which means that he is being tried <O>cough</O> at
the one time on three separate offences <#\>Now this is normal
procedure and is adopted for convenience although it is not
always the fairest method <#\>You are hearing three trials at
the same time but you must consider each count separately<,>
and use only admissible evidence relative to that particular
count in arriving at your verdict <#\>If you are satisfied
beyond reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused on any one
count then you do not use such finding to resolve any doubt on
any other count <#\>The correct approach is to treat each
count separately and use only the evidence which is admissible
in relation to that count to determine whether you are
satisfied beyond reasonable doubt<,> of the guilt of the
accused in relation to that count<,> <#\>Having come to a
decision whether to convict or to acquit then you move onto
the next count using only the admissible evidence relative to
that count in arriving at your verdict <#\>Now this procedure
is repeated until you have reached a verdict er on all<,>
counts<,,> <#\>Now having said that for reasons which I will
say state to you later and which counsel
have also indicated to you <O>cough</O> the verdict<,,> er on
er each of these three counts should be the same in view of
the way in which the cases the case has
been presented and the circumstances of the er er
 of the evidence but I shall deal with that
<O>cough</O> at a late at a later at a later
stage <,,> <O>cough</O><,,> <#\>I now wish to
ah or propose to refer to the evidence in
general and to tell you ow how evidence is
admissible either for or against an accused person so far as
relevant to this particular trial<,,> <#\><O>cough</O>Now evidence of conversations between the accused and a crown witness uh is evidence either against or for the accused profide provided the crown witness gives evidence of that conversation i in the er witness box</I>

