<S2A-055> <2012>

<I><#\>This week <,,> we're going to look at <,> everything on
a grand scale from galaxies to clusters of galaxies to the
universe and the creation of the universe <#\>I've got a
couple of <O>inaudible two syllables</O> <#\>Just going back
over <,,> a few of the images we've seen before <,,>
<#\>Here's a nebula and this is a typical birthplace of a star
and in particular they like to form within these dark lanes
here <#\>Within this nebula there are some stars already these
are stars here which are illuminating the cloud so we can see
it <#\>So the only way we can get to see that cloud is if
there are stars embedded in it or at least nearby to make the
cloud glow <#\>Here's a lovely example of some stars which
have just formed out of a nebula and they're still cocooned in
the clouds of gas that formed them and given time with the
heat and the light that comes off the stars they'll blow away
that dust and gas out into space and we have a naked star
<O>inaudible three syllables</O> <,,> <#\>Here we have the
Great Orion Nebula which I've shown you through the telescope
<#\>also another good birthplace for stars <#\>Deep inside
there using infra-red astronomy we can see new stars forming
<,,> <#\>Here we have a planetary nebula <#\>This is at the
other end of the star's life <#\>Here the star has been
puffing off clouds of gas into space and it's become more
unstable and is working its way towards dying <,,> <#\>Here we
have a a <?>Boc</?> Globule or a dark
nebula <#\>A nebula without any stars embedded in it <#\>It's
cold and a particularly good place to form stars <#\>And over
here we have an open cluster <,> <#\>A cluster of newly formed
stars and many many background stars <#\>Here's another
planetary nebula <#\>A star a star 
dying <,,> <#\>Here we have a group of stars which have just
formed inside a nebula and they're blowing the nebula away so
you're left with this bubble <,> and some hydrogen gas around
here as well <,,> <#\>Here's another planetary nebular called
the Helix <#\>This is quite large in the sky <#\>If you were
to see this with your eye in the dark sky this is about the
size of the moon how big the moon appears to be in the sky
<#\>So it's quite large but it's just very very faint so it's
hard to actually see it with your eye but with photography you
pick it up <,> and if you bring your camera along on the
weekend away then we should be able to pick nebulae like this
just with your normal camera <O>inaudible eight
syllables</O> <#\>And here we have a more violent death of a
star <#\>This is a a supernova
remanent <,> <#\>A star here has exploded thrown a good
percentage of its mass out into space at very high speed
<#\>Supernova is one of the most violent events in the
universe and the material breaking off the supernova is almost
travelling at the speed of light at the moment of the
explosion <#\>And in the centre there is left a pulsar or
neutron star and maybe for very massive stars we have a black
hole <,> <#\>And they all reside in what we call the Milky Way
galaxy <#\>Our own galaxy <#\>These things are all relatively
close to us compared to the vastness of the universe <#\>This
photograph here is a photograph of the whole sky everything
you can possibly see and the band across the photograph there
is what is called the Milky Way <#\>From Greek mythology they
thought it was milk spilt on the sky but ne we now know that it's made up of hundreds of
thousands of millions of stars <#\>In our galaxy which is what
we're viewing here there's estimated to be about four hundred
thousand million stars <#\>All the stars you see with your own
eye at night time as you look up are within our Milky Way
galaxy <,,> <#\>Now if we were to be outside the galaxy
looking at it externally you'd see that it looks something
like this <#\>It's a a group as I said
of about four hundred thousand million stars in this spiral
shape <,> <#\>And that's looking face on down the top of it
<#\>If you were to look side on then you'd notice that it's
flat with a bulge in the centre <#\>This 
 this area here is this flat region <#\>And its
diameter is about one hundred thousand light years <#\>So it
takes light one hundred thousand years to transverse our
galaxy <#\>And the sun lies at about thirty thousand light
years from the centre in suburbia <#\>It's got no
predisposition at all <#\>It's a very average star <,> with no
<,> particular important position in our galaxy <#\>So if you
can imagine <,> being situated here in this disk and if you
look through the disk then you're going to see many many stars
from our vantage point here <#\>If you look out of the disk
this way or this way the disk at its thickest is only about
twelve <,> twelve thousand light years
across and so you won't see many stars above or below us <#\>
So the sky will appear to be reasonably void of stars but if
you look around the disk here you'll notice many many stars
<#\>And so that's how we get the appearance of the Milky Way
in our sky <#\>We're simply looking around the disk of our
galaxy <,> <#\>And when we're viewing here and here we're
looking up and below the disk <#\>We're looking out of the
disk so we don't see many stars <,,> <O>inaudible question
from audience</O> <#\>That's an actual photograph yes
<O>inaudible question from audience</O> <#\>It's a mosaic so
<,,> from different locations all around the world they would
take photographs of the sky and simply glue them together <,,>
<#\>So in a sense you've gotta imagine this photograph wrapped
around you <#\>If you were floating out in space so that you
didn't have the earth in the way then you'd be able to see all
of this with your eyes <#\>So it's as though you're head's
here and you wrap it wrap around you
completely and that's the view you see <,,> <#\>The different
structures within the galaxy are given names <#\>The central
region is called the core <#\>And that's the bright central
region in the photograph <,,><#\>These spirals here are called
the arms <#\>The spiral arms <#\>And within the spiral arms is
where most of the gas and dust is <#\>Where star formation is
going on <#\>Within the centre of the galaxy the stars in here
seem to be quite old and no more star formation is going on
<#\> There's not much gas and dust in there to create more
stars <#\>And astronomers have classified stars into two types
population two stars which are the stars which are believed to
have come first when the universe was created <#\>And they
tended to form in the centre of a galaxy <#\>So these are very
old stars in here <#\>But they do extend over the disk but not
in such a well defined disk <#\>They're quite 
 it's quite a broad disk for these older type stars
<#\>And then there're the population one stars which are the
ones which are in the spiral arms and are the newer stars
<#\>And the newer stars are made up of the debris to a certain
extent of the older stars and that's what distinguishes
population one and population two <,,> <O>inaudible seven
syllables</O> <,,> <#\>And around the galaxy is a region
called the halo <#\>You can't see it very clearly in this
diagram but there are stars within the halo <,>
<#\>Astronomers have been able to map out our galaxy by
various sophisticated techniques <#\>It's in a sense like
trying to map out Sydney by standing out in the front yard of
the observatory here and making a Gregories of Sydney by just
standing in the front yard <#\>It's very very very difficult
unless you can use some tricky techniques <#\>And that's
what's been employed here <#\>Our sun again is up here and
astronomers have observed the clouds of gas which are in the
spiral arms and observed their velocity and by looking at
their velocity they've been able to map out where they should
be located within out galaxy <#\>Now the gas closer to the
centre travels just a little bit quicker than the gas which is
further out here <,> and by knowing that they've been able to
position the gas within the galaxy and map out what the galaxy
looks like and our position <,,> <O>inaudible three
syllables</O> <#\>Good I'll come up to that in a sec <#\>I'll
do a little animation first <,,> <#\>So this is the the Milky Way galaxy as we see it optically with
our eyes <#\>And as I've mentioned before a lot of the galaxy
is obscured by nebulae clouds of gas and dust and we're not
able to see the stars on the other side <#\>So the stars on
the other side of the disk are impossible to observe
<#\>They're just too far away and there's too much debris in
the way to see them <#\>But using longer wavelengths infra-red
the Milky Way looks like this and you notice that it's not so
patchy <#\>It's a bit more uniform across the disk here <,>
<#\>And the infra-red has a better chance of working its way
through the clouds so we can see the stars on the other side
what the clouds <#\>And if we go to radio then with radio we
can observe almost to the other side of the galaxy because
radio waves can make their way through the galaxy without much
problem <,,> <#\>This is a better illustration of the halo and
this is a distant galaxy again and the little dots here
represent globular clusters groups of stars <#\>I've shown you
one through the telescope very very faintly and at the Hunter
there's one globular cluster which will appear through the
telescope which is going to look spectacular <#\>It's the one
I actually showed you here <,,> <#\>It's ah in general a group
of about a million stars or so all clustered together and
they're population two stars <#\>They're the older type of
stars <#\>So when the galaxies were forming when stars were
forming out of the primordial material that made up the
universe these were the first things to form the globular
clusters and the central region of the galaxy here <#\>And as
I'll mention later it's not really fully understood how a
galaxy forms so everything's going to be very descriptive <,,>
<#\>And here's a photograph of a globular cluster <,> <#\>The
stars here look bluish in photo in this
photograph but they're in actual fact more reddy
than than blue more yellow and red in
colour <#\>They're stars in a sense similar to our own sun
<#\>The <,,> if you imagine a a nebula being here in the beginning and
forming stars <,,> <#\>The formation was very very efficient
and it used up all the all the gasses
there and the bright blue stars which burn out very quickly
have since died and we're just left with the type of stars
which have been around for a long time stars like our sun the
more yellowy reddy type stars <#\>So that's what makes up
globular clusters <,,> <#\>Here's a a 
lovely photograph of the galaxy which <,>
 which I'll just have to turn down the lights so
you can see it better <#\>Now besides our Milky Way galaxy
there are many other galaxies out in space <#\>Now up until
the nineteen hundreds these were observed through telescopes
as being nebulas just clouds of gas <#\>They were called
spiral nebulae <,> and it was just assumed that they were
clouds of gas which had a spiral shape and they were thought
to be in our galaxy <#\>Now it wasn't until this century that
astronomers realised when they turned their large telescopes
to these objects that they could see individual stars within
them and by their brightness they realised that these must be
a long way away <#\>This galaxy here might be about thirty
million light years away <#\>It's a great distance away
<#\>It's a lovely photograph because it shows the true colours
of the components of the galaxy</I>
